---
marp: true
size: 16:9
theme: uncover
class:
  - invert
paginate: true
---

<style>
pre > code {
    min-width: 900px;
    padding: 0.5rem;
    line-height: 1.5;
  }
</style>

## Deployments

---

A Deployment provides declarative updates for changes to a Pod spec.

---

Describes how to transition from the existing state to the new state of pods based on update strategies you define.

---

### ReplicaSets

Describe how to manage a set of Pod replicas.

But don't provide controls for managing changes.

---

### Deployments Manage ReplicaSets

Deployments use additional metadata that provide precise control for how rollouts (or rollbacks) will occur.

---

### Strategies

- Rolling
- Blue/Green

---

### Rolling Updates

A rolling update means capacity (number of pods) remains constant.

Speed of rollout is dictated by what % of Pods can be unavailable.

---

### Blue/Green Deployments

Blue/Green deployments require all existing Pods remain available.

Requires capacity to surge 100%.

---

### Updating a Deployment

A Deployment's rollout is triggered only when the Pod spec template is changed.

---

Scaling a deployment simply increases the number of replicas, but isn't a rollout.

A "rollout" indicates a change in state of the Deployment.

---

### Create the Deployment

```sh
kubectl apply -f labs/nginx-deployment.yaml
```

---

### Inspect Deployment State 

```sh
kubectl get deployments
kubectl describe deployment nginx
kubectl rollout status deployment/nginx
kubectl rollout history deployment/nginx
kubectl get replicasets
kubectl get pods --selector="app=nginx" -o wide
```

---


### Update the Deployment 

Specify a new NGINX version.

```sh
kubectl apply -f labs/nginx-deployment.yaml
```

---

### Rolling Back

```sh
kubectl rollout undo deployment/nginx-deployment
```

---

To a specific version:

```sh
kubectl rollout undo deployment/nginx-deployment --to-revision=2
```

---

### Scaling the Deployment

Change the replica number in the manifest.

```sh
kubectl apply -f labs/nginx-deployment.yaml
```

---

### Pausing and Resuming

```sh
kubectl rollout pause deployment/nginx
```

```sh
kubectl rollout resume deployment/nginx
```

---

### Failed Deployment

Always set a `progressDeadlineSeconds` so your deployment doesn't get stuck indefinitely.

---

### Code Challenge

```sh
# Build different tags
cd labs/containers/devjokes
minikube image build -t devjokes:v1
minikube image build -t devjokes:v2
minikube image build -t devjokes:v3
```

1. Create a devjokes Deployment
2. Experiment with rolling updates, then blue/green deploys
3. Use `watch -n 1 kubectl get deployments nginx -o wide` and `watch -n 1 kubectl rollout status deployment/devjokes` to observe rollouts when changing the image
4. Experiment with scaling up and down replica figures.
4. Start with `devjokes:v1` and move through to `devjokes:v3`
5. Once you update to `devjokes:v3`, rollback to a previous revision using `kubectl rollout undo deployment/devjokes`

watch -n 1 kubectl get pods --selector="app=nginx" -o wide